>> Todd Gardner: Problem with the
performance API is that, when you want to
interrogate it for something,
we have what's called the observer effect.
The observer effect is
like a scientific term,
it's most famously known in
terms of like quantum mechanics,
if you're a science nerd, where you
change the results by measuring them.
This is definitely a problem in the web
space, is if you get involved in logging
and you start interacting with
the performance API a lot,
you're slowing things down by how
you're choosing to interact with it.
You might decide, I wanna get a bunch
of logging information when the browser
is busy trying to do the thing
that you're trying to log.
And so that's where
the performance observer comes in.
The performance observer gives us a tool
to get information about the performance
of the page, when the browser's idle.
When it's not doing anything else pass me
some information about performance and
get outta the way.
So here's an example of
a performance observer.
We can use these things to observe
different kinds of entries which represent
like the core web vitals or
resource requests or navigations.
Here's an example of how we
could observe layout shifts.
So I create a new performance observer,
and that performance observer takes
a callback, we get a list of
things that have been observed.
That list of things will give us an array
of entries, and then for each one,
we'll have information about it.
That information is essentially
that object I was just playing
with in the console.
It's all of those properties, and
those properties are different
based on what thing we're measuring, so
you have to kind of experiment with it.
In the case of layout shift,
we get a thing called value, so
this just prints out.
Here's a layout shift at this particular
value, once we start it up, we've called
performance observer to observe we
grab the kind of thing that we want.
So you need a performance observer for
every different thing you wanna measure.
And then buffered is important,
because what this lets us do is it lets us
be informed of events that happened
before I started observing.
So if you're building a performance
agent of some kind to look at your page,
you probably don't want it
to load at the beginning.
You probably want it to load at the end,
and then attach its listeners at the end,
and you want buffered listeners that get
information about all the things that
happened before you were on the page.
That's what that property lets you do.
>> Todd Gardner: A way more simple
way if you care about the web vitals
specifically, which chances
are that's what you care about,
is there's a package from Google called
Web vitals js, and it's out on Github and
the sources in the slides.
And what that basically
lets you do is it lets you
subscribe to particular events and
handle all of the other
weird intra idiosyncrasies
about adding things together.
Finding the biggest one,
knowing when it's time to capture it,
handling changes if the document got like
tabbed away and all those sort of things.
That's all abstracted away in this
library called web-vitals which is great,
and you can just subscribe to events
called onLCP, onCLS, onINP, and
get the data that you need,
which is super interesting.
I'd say 99% of the time you never need
to interact with this stuff directly,
you're probably going to be
using a reporting tool or
a monitoring tool of some kind that
interacts with these things for you.
But if you're trying to diagnose a page
yourself, these can be interesting to know
that they exist so
that you can grab the low level details.
>> Student: Would you just fire these
up in the console or something, or
what event would you tie them to when the
page loads for the performance observer.
>> Todd Gardner: Sure, so
let me show you just a quick example.
Discard that.
>> Todd Gardner: So if I want to,let
me just reload this page here,
which will take a second.
So if I was to put this in code,
what I might do is I'd be,
window.addEventListener load.
And I would don't really
care about the event, so
in a bit of code like this,
I would attach a performance observer.
Now, I'm not gonna put it in
an addeventlistener in the console
because obviously load has
already fired in this case, but
I would could create an observer.
So const observer equals
new performance observer.
>> Todd Gardner: And
I'm gonna listen to a list of things.
List.getEntries.forEachentry.
>> Todd Gardner: Console.logEntry.
>> Todd Gardner: Then I need to
say observer.Observe, what was it?
>> Todd Gardner: Type,
layout, shift buffered, true.
>> Todd Gardner: So if I just do this,
I'm gonna get nothing, because no layout
shifts are happening now,
I just attached this event observer.
And so, unless I trigger a layout shift
to happen, nothing's gonna happen.
But if I do this again and
I say buffered true,
I get all the layout shifts that happened.
And so
it gives me like the full details of them.
So here's a layout shift,
here's the sources,
here's the things that actually shifted.
So this text node, this H two element and
this text node all shifted.
The total value of this
shift was 0.002155,
and it started,
the shift start at 4.278 seconds.
So that's how you would go
about attaching these and
the data that you get off of them.
And there's the same sort of thing,
instead of listening for layout shift,
which just gives you individual
layout shifts, right?
There's no one to listen cumulative layout
shift, you'd have to attach these and
then just add all of them
together as you get them.
That's one of the things the web vitals
library does is it adds things together
for you and figures that stuff and
when you should actually report stuff.
But you could listen to other things like
give me an observer every time a fetch
event goes off, so you can monitor how
long every one of your fetch calls takes.
You could use a performance observer for
that.
>> Todd Gardner: Okay.
>> Todd Gardner: All right,
let's talk about browser support, yeah.
>> Student: Quick question on
the performance.time origin,
where in the waterfall does that start?
>> Todd Gardner: That would be start,
that's the most left hand side,
time origin is the full date object of
when start time is when the access begins.
So everything else is relative to get,
usually all the other times
are measured relatively.
So it's like 200 milliseconds
since time origin or whatever.
If you want to switch it from that
relative time to the absolute timestamp
of this thing happened on
September 30th at whatever time,
you just add your metric to time origin.
>> Student: So, it's when the browser
makes the HTTP GET request?
>> Todd Gardner: It's when
the browser makes the first
HTTP GET request in response
to a user navigation.
So, if I open up a browser window,
a fresh- browser window and
I type in something and hit enter,
it's measuring the time I hit enter.
Now, if that request bounces through a
bunch of redirects, all of those count and
the time origin is when I hit enter.
If I'm Googled for something and
I click a search result,
it's time origin represents a short time
after I clicked on something, it doesn't
really count of how long the Google
page took to unload and garbage cleanup.
But when that navigation happened,
it counts all of the movements from that
point forward,
that's when time origin happens.